[MUSIC]
In this video we're gonna
hook up our functionality so
that we have a game where we're
printing our guess to the screen and
we can click higher and we can click
lower and the guess updates accordingly.
We need to make a connection between the
text we're displaying on our screen here.
At the moment, it's all question marks.
But instead of all question marks, we want
to display whatever the current guess is,
and the guess variable itself
that we are recalculating
the value of within our script.
So if the player pressed higher,
then we have a new value of guess.
Want that new value of guess
to be displayed just here.
So how do we do that, how do we tell our
code in here, how do we tell our script,
that you should be making this, whatever
the value you currently understand for
guess, you should be putting it just here?
Well, the first thing we need
to do is to serialize a field,
serialize a variable that allows
us to connect the two together.
So let's give ourselves a little bit
space at the top of the script here.
Gonna type in serialize field.
And then, we need to create
a variable that's gonna be of type.
Now, what type is it?
It's type whatever this is just here.
It's a Text Mesh Pro UGUI script.
If we were just using regular text,
then it would just be a text field.
But because this is our Text Mesh Pro,
it's a little bit different.
To access this, we first need to use
the namespace using text to TMPro.
So that stands for TextMesh Pro.
If we were using just
a regular text field in there,
then we would be using
the Unity engine .ui namespace.
But we're using TextMesh Pro, so we need
to get access to all the classes and
methods contained within this namespace,
we need to be using that namespace.
So now, when we get to serialize field,
we have the option of a type
which is Text Mesh Pro UGUI.
And we will call this guessText.
Okay, so whether it was text in here or
game object, whatever it is,
the type that are trying to look for, this
now says only accept this particular type.
We'll call it guessText.
And what is it that we
wish to link to guessText?
Well, let's jump over into Unity,
click on where our script is.
Save first.
Sorry, my bad.
Save over i, your script.
That way, it will compile,
and it will be looking for
that field that we've serialized.
It should take a second, and
then we can see guessText.
It's looking for a Text Mesh Pro UGUI.
Okay, so we have one of those.
If we click on our guessText,
you can see that is what we are after.
Okay, it's a little bit tricky.
Click on game play, and
then drag guessText into that field there.
Or of course,
you could have clicked the selector and
found one of our
Text Mesh Pro text elements.
Now that we've connected it, it now
understands in here, I know, guessText,
whenever I'm using guessText
within this class or
within this script, you are actually
referring to this particular text field.
Which is really cool.
That allows us now to update what
is shown in that text field.
So what do we want to
show in that text field?
Well, where's the very first
time we're displaying guess?
Down here, in our start game,
we're saying what guess is.
And we wish to display this
onto the screen at that point.
So what we're gonna do is
use our two string method.
First of all, we need to say guessText.
That's our variable just up here.
What aspect of guessText
are we looking for?
Well, we're looking for the text element.
And then, we are taking our value for
guess and
we're using ToString() to
convert this into a string.
Cuz in our text field, it's looking to
display a string, not an integer and
not a float, and not anything else,
it just wants a string.
So we need to say, well,
whatever you think guess is at the moment,
whether it's 500 or 1,000,
I want you to convert that into a string.
And then, this number that we've now
made into a string, say it was 1,000
plus 1 divided by 2, 500,
we want that to be a string.
And then, to display within
the guessText.txt field, display that 500.
Let's save that, or
whatever number the number might be.
We'll click Play.
And you can see, my guess is 501.
Which is really cool, cuz we're now
displaying our guess onto the screen.
It's also not so cool, cuz we've
made a slight error in our logic.
And I believe max = max + 1 should
be back to where we had it before,
which is underneath this
initial calculation.
Let's see how that goes.
Save that back over into Unity.
Click Play.
And our first guess is 500,
which is exactly in the middle.
It doesn't really matter,
the player's not gonna get upset.
But we wanna keep it nice and neat.
And in the next step, we need to be
able to click on a higher and lower and
have that call the method that
we've created already, and
to display the new guess onto the screen.
And so, the challenge I've got for
you is to make it work.
Okay, that's a nice ambiguous
heading there, isn't it?
Make it work.
Do what it's supposed to do.
Okay, so connect your higher and
lower buttons.
When you click on them,
they work as expected.
Display the updated guess each time you
click the higher and lower buttons.
Make sure it's the correct guess.
And I'm gonna give you a couple of hints.
If that's enough for you to go on,
then jump in, pause the video and
take that on now.
If you'd like the hints, here they are.
Hint number one.
Set the OnClick function to our
recently created public methods.
That's in order to get the buttons
calling those methods and
doing what they should do.
And then, in terms of the guess,
we need to add something, add a line,
add a statement to our NextGuess() method.
So there are the hints for you.
We've got everything we need.
Jump in, take that on, and
I'll see you back here when you're done.
Okay, I'm really excited.
We're very close to having
functionality all hooked up.
You might have yours hooked up already and
you've been playing around with it.
Very excellent.
So now, higher button.
When we click that button, we need to,
we're currently using
Scene Loader is dropped in here.
We want to find,
what is it that we need to find?
Gameplay.
So game play as our game object.
Or we could have dragged
Gameplay over in here.
The function we're looking for,
Number Wizard.
And then, we have onPressHigher.
And for our lower button,
we are doing the same thing this time.
I will drag GamePlay nice and
quick into there.
No function, that's not correct.
We want Number Wizard, OnPressLower.
Ok, so we've got higher and lower working
for our buttons, or connected for
our buttons.
Let's go and
have a look at our logic in here.
So OnPressHigher, OnPressLower.
And then, when there's a next guess,
a next guess happens,
whenever we are pressing those buttons,
so we're calling nextGuess here and
calling nextGuess here.
What do we need to do?
So it says hey, do nextGuess,
cuz we're calling nextGuess.
nextGuess says righty-o, I'll do that.
The new value of guess is this.
And we wanna update what
we display on the screen,
which is our guessText.text
= guess.ToString.
I'm gonna copy that,
paste it down in here.
So I'm putting in the same information.
We're taking our guess value and
we're converting into a string, and
then presenting that in our guessText
field that we've hooked up.
Save.
Back into the game.
Moment of truth.
Click on Play.
And then, starts at 500, click Higher.
It goes up, up, up, down, down, down.
Down, down, down,
all the way until it reaches a point
where it can't go up or down.
Wonderful, click Success,
takes us next screen.
Play again?
Yes, why not?
Start.
And let's choose a number.
We'll say 620.
It's higher than that, lower, lower still,
higher than that, higher.
Higher than 617, 620, one lower, 619.
My goodness, there we go, 620.
Okay, so it works.
Our full game flow works.
Our Higher and Lower button works.
Really very excellent.
We've still got a little bit
of just tidying up to do on
a couple of extra nifty
things that we'll put in.
But this is our logic,
this is displaying text from our
code onto our screen, onto our UI.
This is something we do a lot,
we'd say score or lies or
health or any sort of user interface.
This mechanism we've set up here when
we're displaying text on the screen.
So great stuff, and
I'll see you in the next lecture.